<DOC>
<DOCNAME>Arch Linux</DOCNAME>
<TEXT>
Arch Linux From ArchWiki Jump to: navigation, search Arch Linux independently developed, i686/x86-64 general purpose GNU/Linux distribution versatile enough suit role. Development focuses simplicity, minimalism, code elegance. Arch installed minimal base system, configured user upon ideal environment assembled installing required desired unique purposes. GUI configuration utilities officially provided, system configuration performed shell text editor. Based rolling-release model, Arch strives stay bleeding edge, typically offers latest stable versions software. Contents 1 History 2 Simplicity 3 Modernity 4 Software packaging 5 Source integrity 6 Community 7 Summary History Main article: History Arch Linux Arch Linux founded Canadian programmer Judd Vinet. Its first formal release, Arch Linux 0.1, March 11, 2002. Although Arch completely independent, draws inspiration simplicity distributions including Slackware, CRUX BSD. In 2007, Judd Vinet stepped Project Lead pursue interests replaced American programmer Aaron Griffin continues lead project today. Simplicity Following The Arch Way, Arch Linux lightweight, flexible, simple distribution. Upon installation, command-line environment compiled i686/x86-64 architectures provided: rather tearing unneeded unwanted packages, user offered ability build basic carefully crafted foundation. Arch's design philosophy implementation make easy extend mold whatever kind system required, basic console machine feature-rich desktop environments: user decides Arch system be. Modernity Arch Linux strives maintain latest stable release versions software long systemic package breakage reasonably avoided. It based rolling-release system, allows one-time installation continuous upgrades, without ever reinstall without perform elaborate procedures involved system upgrades one release version next. By issuing one command, Arch system kept up-to-date bleeding edge. Arch incorporates many newer features available GNU/Linux users, including systemd init system, modern filesystems (Ext2/3/4, Reiser, XFS, JFS, BTRFS), LVM2, software RAID, udev support initcpio (with mkinitcpio), well latest available kernels. Software packaging Arch backed pacman, easy-to-use binary package manager allows upgrade entire system one command. Pacman coded C designed ground lightweight, simple fast. Arch also provides Arch Build System, ports-like system make easy build install packages source, also synchronized one command. You even rebuild entire system one command. Supporting i686 x86-64 architectures, Arch's Official repositories provide several thousands high-quality packages meet software demands. In addition, Arch encourages community growth contribution offering Arch User Repository, contains many thousands user-maintained PKGBUILD scripts compiling installable packages source using makepkg application. It also possible users easily build maintain custom repositories. Source integrity Arch provides non-patched, vanilla software; packages offered pure upstream sources, author originally intended distributed. Patching occurs extremely rare cases, prevent severe breakage instance version mismatches may occur within rolling release model. Community The Arch community dependable, lively welcoming: Archers encouraged participate contribute distribution, helping development core software, maintaining packages, reporting fixing bugs, improving ArchWiki documentation, helping users solving problems exchanging opinions forums, mailing lists, IRC channels, sharing one's knowledge even self-developed applications. Arch Linux operating system choice many people around globe, exist several international communities offer help provide documentation many different languages. See Getting involved feel want become active member community. Summary To summarize: Arch Linux versatile simple distribution designed fit needs competent Linux® user. It powerful easy manage, making ideal distro servers workstations. Take direction like: share vision GNU/Linux distribution be, welcomed encouraged use freely, get involved, contribute community. Welcome Arch! Retrieved "https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php?title=Arch_Linux&oldid=382693" Category: About Arch
</TEXT>
</DOC>
